[< Previous (FAQ)](faq.md)

***

Development
===========

Interested in pekwm? Want to keep up with the development? Good, we
can tell you how.

**Table of Contents**

1. [IRC](#irc)
1. [Bug Tracker](#bug-tracker)
1. [The developers](#the-developer)

IRC
---

Our IRC channel #pekwm is located on irc.freenode.net. A lot of
development discussion goes on there, however you can also get simple
help there pretty easily.

The following is a "do not" list. If some idiotic behaviour like,
public away messages, or nick changing as a way of telling what you
are doing, are not mentioned it doesn't mean you can do them.

As it seems to be a problem for some, do not ask questions in IRC
unless you are willing to listen to the answer. If listening is your
problem, you need other help than what we at IRC can provide.

If you have a question, ask it. It doesn't help to go around shouting
"can anyone help me". Help you with what? This will help the right
people to take initial contact with you, saving your time and adding
less clutter to the channel.

For same reasons, don't ask if we are alive or other meaningless
questions leading to the real question. Don't ask if someone specific
is around either. This is not the pager channel for you and your
friends.

Do not ask from one person. The fact is, even how much you think he or
she must be the only one who knows the answer, you are wrong. There's
at least a handful of people lurking on the channel who could help
you.

Read the documentation and FAQ before you ask anything. Doing this is
common courtesy towards the people who answer your questions. Not
reading at least the FAQ will be considered rude.

When asking a question, the answer more than often depends on the
version of pekwm you use. Showing us the information the command
**pekwm --info** gives will help us help you.

Do not expect people to answer your questions during the two minutes
you stay in the channel. We can't sit there all the time waiting for
your questions. If you can't wait longer, think about how stressful
your life is, take a break, go on a vacation, take it easy for a
while.

For similar reasons, don't repeat yourself. We saw it the first
time. Repeating easily gets you ignored completely so it eats its own
purpose. It's also considered rude, much like cutting in line.

If people tell you to read the documentation, they have a good reason
to do so. If they include an URL that helps you find the info quicker,
offer them your firstborn as a payback.

Don't offend anyone. They will offend you back two times.

Nicks with excessive capital letters will be hunted down and shot on
sight. You might as well use a proper nick to start with to avoid
this.

You can check the [developers](#devel-who) section to see the list of
developers mapped to their IRC nicks.

As with all IRC channels, it's best to not do anything too drastic
before keeping an eye for a while on how the channel works. We won't
mind even if you just idle there, there are long standing traditions
on that.

Welcome aboard!

Bug Tracker
-----------

pekwm bugs, feature requests and what-not are filed on Github issue
tracker available at https://github.com/pekdon/pekwm/issues

The developers
--------------

Below is a list of pekwm developers and what they do. The email
address is more of an informational thing than anything else; the
developers all subscribe to the + [pekwm mailing
list](http://pekwm.org/projects/pekwm/mailing_lists/15), so you should
email that instead.

### Developers

Claes Nästén (aka pekdon) <pekdon@gmail.com>

Main developer- Writes code. Has a serious screenshot fetish.

### Past devekopers

Andreas Schlick (aka ioerror)

Maintainer.

Jyri Jokinen (aka shared) <shared@adresh.com>

Writes documentation. Acts ill-tempered. You have been warned.

***

[< Previous (FAQ)](faq.md)
