doc/themes.md, before:

[< Previous (Actions)](actions.md)
\- [Up](README.md)
\- [(FAQ) Next >](faq.md)

***

Themes
======

This section aims to document the pekwm theme structure, providing
enough information to create and modify themes.

Please use the offical pekwm themes as real life examples and base
when it comes to making your own theme. The _pekwm_theme_ utility
supports a new command which creates an empty theme structure.

Theme Index
-----------

Themes can be registered in the
[pekwm theme index](https://github.com/pekwm/pekwm-theme-index)
to make them available for use with the _pekwm_theme_ utility.

See the [pekwm theme index](https://github.com/pekwm/pekwm-theme-index)
for details on how to get your theme included.

Theme Directory
---------------

Themes are contained in directories with at least a file named _theme_.

The recommended theme structure, as generated by _pekwm_theme new_ is
as follows:

```
my-theme/          <- directory in which pekwm will look for theme images
  backgrounds/     <- directory in which pekwm_bg will look for images
    dark.png
    light.png
  button-close.png
  theme            <- standard theme variant
  theme-dark       <- dark theme variant
  template         <- template file included by both theme variants
```

Attributes
----------

Here is the explanation of Attributes names of themes

| Attribute     | Description                                                                                                                                                                    | Example                                 |
|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|
| pixels        | An integer, amount of pixels.                                                                                                                                                  | example: "2"                            |
| size          | Pixels vertically times pixels horizontally.                                                                                                                                   | example: "2x2"                          |
| percent       | Any percent value from 1 to 100.                                                                                                                                               | example: "87"                           |
| toggle        | Sets a value as true (1) or false (0).                                                                                                                                         | example: "true"                         |
| decorname     | Name for decoration                                                                                                                                                            | example: "Default"                      |
| colour        | A colour value in RGB format.                                                                                                                                                  | example: "#FFFFFF"                      |
| imagename     | Name of the imagefile with an option after the #                                                                                                                               | example: "image.png"                    |
| texture       | Any valid texture                                                                                                                                                              | example: "Solid #ffffff 4x4             |
| fontstring    | Defines a font. Chopped to parts by # marks. First the font type (XFT or X11), then the font name, then the text orientation, then shadow offsets. Some fields can be omitted. | example: "XFT#Verdana:size=10#Left#1 1" |
| buttonactions | Buttonactions work similar to what you are used to from the mouse config, first mouse button number pressed when this action should happen, then any standard pekwm actions.           | example: "1" { Actions = "Close" }      |

### Decor names

Any name can be used and applied to windows with autoproperties or the
set decor action. The list below includes names with special meaning:

* _DEFAULT_, Defines decorations to all windows unless overridden with another decoration set (REQUIRED).
* _ATTENTION_, Defines the decoration for windows which set the urgency/demand-attention hint.
* _BORDERLESS_, Defines decorations for borderless windows (recommended).
* _INPUTDIALOG_, Defines decorations for input dialogs, such as the CmdDialog.
* _MENU_, Defines decorations for menus.
* _STATUSWINDOW_, Defines decorations for the status window.
* _TITLEBARLESS_, Defines decorations for titlebarless windows (recommended, should be there if your theme looks nasty when toggled titlebarless).
* _WORKSPACEINDICATOR_, Defines decorations for the workspace indicator.

### Image options

* _#fixed_, Image is fixed size.
* _#scaled_, Image will be scaled to fit the area it's defined for.
* _#tiled_, Image will be repeated as many times as needed to fill the area it's defined for. This is the default if no option is specified.

### Textures

* _EMPTY_, No texture (transparent).
* _SOLID colour size_, A solid colour texture of defined colour and size.
* _SOLIDRAISED colour colour colour pixels pixels toggle toggle toggle toggle size_, A solid colour texture with a 3D look of defined colours, form and size. First colour defines the main fill colour, second the highlight colour used on the left and top parts of the texture, third the highlight colour on the bottom and right parts of the texture. First pixel amount defines how fart apart the 3D effects are from each other, while the second pixel amount refers to how thick the bordering will be (both pixels default to 1). The four toggles are used to tell which raised corners are to be drawn. This is useful for example when defining solidraised frame corner pieces. The order is Top, Bottom, Left, Right (not unlike that used in padding). As example: "True False True False" (or 1 0 1 0) could mean you want to draw the TopLeft piece of a solidraised window border. Size should explain itself, see above.
* _LINESHORZ size color1 [color2...]_, Fill the area with horizontal "lines" of size. Size can be specified in pixels or percent of the area being filled with the texture.
* _LINESVERT_size color1 [color2...]_, Fill the area with vertical "lines" of size. Size can be specified in pixels or percent of the area being filled with the texture.
* _IMAGE imagename_, An image texture using the defined imagename

Theme structure
---------------

### Background

Theme support for the root background. This option may not be honoured
by pekwm if _ThemeBackground_ is set to false in the _Screen_ section
of the configuration file.

* _Texture (texture)_, Texture used to set the background. Each head is treated individually for scaled backgrounds.

### Decor

A list of blocks with theme specifications regarding the various types of
decorations.

#### Title

Theming of the frame.

* _Height (pixels)_, Amount of pixels the titlebar should height.
* _HeightAdapt (boolean)_, If true, Height is adapted to fit the Title font.
* _Pad (pixels t,b,l,r)_, How many pixels are left around a title text.
* _PadAdapt (boolean), Set true to adjust vertical padding so that the font gets centered vertically, requires _HeightAdapt_ to be false.
* _Focused (texture)_, Background texture for a focused titlebar.
* _UnFocused (texture)_, Background texture for an unfocused titlebar.
* _WidthMin (pixels)_, Minimum width of title in pixels, will also place the titlebar outside of the window borders. Use 0 to place titlebar inside borders.
* _WidthMax (percent)_, Maximum width of titles relative to window width. When this value ends up being smaller than the value in WidthMin, WidthMin is overridden.
* _WidthSymetric (boolean)_, Set true to constant width titles or false to use titles that only are as big as the clients title text string requires (note, asymmetric width is not fully implemented yet, always set this true for now to avoid problems).

#### Tab

Theming of the titlebar tabs.

* _Focused (texture)_, Background texture for a tab of a focused window.
* _Unfocused (texture)_, Background texture for a tab of an unfocused window.
* _FocusedSelected (texture)_, Background texture for the currently selected tab of a focused window.
* _UnFocusedSelected (texture)_, Background texture for the currently selected tab of an unfocused window.

#### FontColor

Theming of font colours.

* _Focused (colour colour)_, Text colour for a tab of a focused window. Second value is the shadow colour.
* _Unfocused (colour colour)_, Text colour for a tab of an unfocused window. Second value for shadow.
* _FocusedSelected (colour colour)_, Text colour for the currently selected tab of a focused window. Second value for shadow.
* _UnFocusedSelected (colour colour)_, Text colour for the currently selected tab of an unfocused window. Second value for shadow.

#### Font

Theming of the titlebar fonts.

* _Focused (fontstring)_, Font of the text of a tab of a focused window.
* _Unfocused (fontstring)_, Font of the text of a tab of an unfocused window.
* _FocusedSelected (fontstring)_, Font of the text of the currently selected tab of a focused window.
* _UnFocusedSelected (fontstring)_, Font of the text of the currently selected tab of an unfocused window.

#### Separator

Theming of the tab separator.

* _Focused (texture)_, Separator texture for a focused window.
* _Unfocused (texture)_, Separator texture for an unfocused window.

#### Buttons

Theming of titlebar buttons.

```
Right = "Name"
```

Places the button on the right end of the titlebar.

```
Left = "Name"
```

Places the button on the left end of the titlebar.

* _Focused (texture)_, Texture for button of a focused window.
* _Unfocused (texture)_, Texture for button of an unfocused window.
* _Pressed (texture)_, Texture for button that is pressed.
* _Hover (texture)_, Texture for button when pointer is placed on it.
* _SetShape (bool)_, If true, the shape of the button is derived from the alpha-channel. If false, the alpha-channel sets only the transparency. (defaults to true)
* _Button (buttonactions)), Configures what to do when a button is pressed.

#### Border

Theming of the borders.

Focused: borders for focused windows.

UnFocused: borders for unfocused windows.

* _TopLeft (texture)_, Texture for the top left corner.
* _Top (texture)_, Texture for the top border.
* _TopRight (texture)_, Texture for the top right corner.
* _Left (texture)_, Texture for the left border.
* _Right (texture)_, Texture for the right birder.
* _BottomLeft (texture)_, Texture for the bottom left corner.
* _Bottom (texture)_, Texture for the bottom border.
* _BottomRight (texture)_, Texture for the bottom right border.

### Harbour

Enables theming of the harbour.

* _Texture (texture)_, Texture to use as the harbour background.

### Menu

Themes the inside of a menu window.

* _Pad (pixels t,d,l,r)_, How many pixels of space around an entry are reserved.
* _PadAdapt (boolean)_, Set true to adjust vertical padding so that the font gets centered vertically.

#### State

One of Focused, Unfocused and Selected defining the appearance when
the menu/submenu is focused, not focused and the menu entry currently
selected.

* _Font (fontstring)_, Which font to use.
* _Background (texture)_, A texture that starts from the top of the menu and ends on the bottom.
* _Item (texture)_, A texture that starts from the top of a menu entry and ends on the bottom of the entry.
* _Text (colour)_, Colour of text to use.
* _Separator (texture)_, Texture to use as separator (required, client menu will break if neither is defined).
* _Arrow (texture)_, Texture to use for indicating submenus (you want this to be defined too).

### CmdDialog

Themes outlining the inside of a command dialog window.

* _Font (fontstring)_, Which font to use.
* _Texture (texture)_, Texture to use as the background.
* _Text (colour)_, Colour of text.
* _Pad (pixels t,d,l,r)_, Amount of pixels of space around font to reserve.
* _PadAdapt (boolean)_, Set true to adjust vertical padding so that the font gets centered vertically.

### Dialog

Controls the appearance of the _pekwm_dialog_ utility, used by the
pekwm_theme command and the crash dialog.

```
---------------------------------
| Title (TitleFont, TitleColor) |
|                               |
|         (Background)          |
|                               |
| Message (Font, Text)          |
|                               |
|       [Option] (Button)       |
---------------------------------
 ```

* _Background (texture)_, window background color.
* _TitleFont (fontstring)_, font used for the title.
* _TitleColor (colour)_, color of the title text.
* _Font (fontstring)_, font used for the message.
* _Text (colour)_, color of the message text.
* _Pad (pixels t,d,l,r)_, padding used for all elements.

#### Button

* _Font (fontstring)_, font used for button text.
* _Text (colour)_, color of button text.

* _Focused (texture)_, focused button texture.
* _Unfocused (texture)_, unfocused button texture (currently not used).
* _Hoover (texture)_, button hoover texture.
* _Pressed (texture)_, button pressed texture.

### Status

Themes the inside of the status window that shows up when moving
and resizing windows.

* _Font (fontstring)_, Which font to use.
* _Texture (texture)_, Texture to use as the background.
* _Text (colour)_, Colour of text.
* _Pad (pixels t,d,l,r)_, Amount of pixels of space around font to reserve.
* _PadAdapt (boolean)_, Set true to adjust vertical padding so that the font gets centered vertically.

### WorkspaceIndicator

Themes the workspace indicator which shows up when switching workspace.

* _Font (fontstring)_, Which font to use.
* _Background (texture)_, Background for the whole window.
* _Workspace (texture)_, Texture to use when rendering a workspace.
* _WorkspaceActive (texture)_, Texture to use when rendering the active workspace.
* _Text (colour)_ Colour of text.
* _EdgePadding (pixels t,d,l,r)_, Amount of pixels of space around window edges and workspaces.
* _WorkspacePadding (pixels t,d,l,r)_, Amount of pixels of space between workspaces.

***

[< Previous (Actions)](actions.md)
\- [Up](README.md)
\- [(FAQ) Next >](faq.md)

Commit message:

Add Theme section to config.
Currently has a single element, BackgroundOverride for overriding the
background set in the theme file.

Add Os interface for background setting tests

doc/themes.md, after:

[< Previous (Actions)](actions.md)
\- [Up](README.md)
\- [(FAQ) Next >](faq.md)

***

Themes
======

This section aims to document the pekwm theme structure, providing
enough information to create and modify themes.

Please use the offical pekwm themes as real life examples and base
when it comes to making your own theme. The _pekwm_theme_ utility
supports a new command which creates an empty theme structure.

Theme Index
-----------

Themes can be registered in the
[pekwm theme index](https://github.com/pekwm/pekwm-theme-index)
to make them available for use with the _pekwm_theme_ utility.

See the [pekwm theme index](https://github.com/pekwm/pekwm-theme-index)
for details on how to get your theme included.

Theme Directory
---------------

Themes are contained in directories with at least a file named _theme_.

The recommended theme structure, as generated by _pekwm_theme new_ is
as follows:

```
my-theme/          <- directory in which pekwm will look for theme images
  backgrounds/     <- directory in which pekwm_bg will look for images
    dark.png
    light.png
  button-close.png
  theme            <- standard theme variant
  theme-dark       <- dark theme variant
  template         <- template file included by both theme variants
```

Attributes
----------

Here is the explanation of Attributes names of themes

| Attribute     | Description                                                                                                                                                                    | Example                                 |
|---------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|
| pixels        | An integer, amount of pixels.                                                                                                                                                  | example: "2"                            |
| size          | Pixels vertically times pixels horizontally.                                                                                                                                   | example: "2x2"                          |
| percent       | Any percent value from 1 to 100.                                                                                                                                               | example: "87"                           |
| toggle        | Sets a value as true (1) or false (0).                                                                                                                                         | example: "true"                         |
| decorname     | Name for decoration                                                                                                                                                            | example: "Default"                      |
| colour        | A colour value in RGB format.                                                                                                                                                  | example: "#FFFFFF"                      |
| imagename     | Name of the imagefile with an option after the #                                                                                                                               | example: "image.png"                    |
| texture       | Any valid texture                                                                                                                                                              | example: "Solid #ffffff 4x4             |
| fontstring    | Defines a font. Chopped to parts by # marks. First the font type (XFT or X11), then the font name, then the text orientation, then shadow offsets. Some fields can be omitted. | example: "XFT#Verdana:size=10#Left#1 1" |
| buttonactions | Buttonactions work similar to what you are used to from the mouse config, first mouse button number pressed when this action should happen, then any standard pekwm actions.           | example: "1" { Actions = "Close" }      |

### Decor names

Any name can be used and applied to windows with autoproperties or the
set decor action. The list below includes names with special meaning:

* _DEFAULT_, Defines decorations to all windows unless overridden with another decoration set (REQUIRED).
* _ATTENTION_, Defines the decoration for windows which set the urgency/demand-attention hint.
* _BORDERLESS_, Defines decorations for borderless windows (recommended).
* _INPUTDIALOG_, Defines decorations for input dialogs, such as the CmdDialog.
* _MENU_, Defines decorations for menus.
* _STATUSWINDOW_, Defines decorations for the status window.
* _TITLEBARLESS_, Defines decorations for titlebarless windows (recommended, should be there if your theme looks nasty when toggled titlebarless).
* _WORKSPACEINDICATOR_, Defines decorations for the workspace indicator.

### Image options

* _#fixed_, Image is fixed size.
* _#scaled_, Image will be scaled to fit the area it's defined for.
* _#tiled_, Image will be repeated as many times as needed to fill the area it's defined for. This is the default if no option is specified.

### Textures

* _EMPTY_, No texture (transparent).
* _SOLID colour size_, A solid colour texture of defined colour and size.
* _SOLIDRAISED colour colour colour pixels pixels toggle toggle toggle toggle size_, A solid colour texture with a 3D look of defined colours, form and size. First colour defines the main fill colour, second the highlight colour used on the left and top parts of the texture, third the highlight colour on the bottom and right parts of the texture. First pixel amount defines how fart apart the 3D effects are from each other, while the second pixel amount refers to how thick the bordering will be (both pixels default to 1). The four toggles are used to tell which raised corners are to be drawn. This is useful for example when defining solidraised frame corner pieces. The order is Top, Bottom, Left, Right (not unlike that used in padding). As example: "True False True False" (or 1 0 1 0) could mean you want to draw the TopLeft piece of a solidraised window border. Size should explain itself, see above.
* _LINESHORZ size color1 [color2...]_, Fill the area with horizontal "lines" of size. Size can be specified in pixels or percent of the area being filled with the texture.
* _LINESVERT_size color1 [color2...]_, Fill the area with vertical "lines" of size. Size can be specified in pixels or percent of the area being filled with the texture.
* _IMAGE imagename_, An image texture using the defined imagename

Theme structure
---------------

### Background

Theme support for the root background. This option may not be honoured
by pekwm if _ThemeBackground_ is set to false in the _Screen_ section
of the configuration file **or** if the _Theme_ section has _BackgroundOverride_
set.

* _Texture (texture)_, Texture used to set the background. Each head is treated individually for scaled backgrounds.

### Decor

A list of blocks with theme specifications regarding the various types of
decorations.

#### Title

Theming of the frame.

* _Height (pixels)_, Amount of pixels the titlebar should height.
* _HeightAdapt (boolean)_, If true, Height is adapted to fit the Title font.
* _Pad (pixels t,b,l,r)_, How many pixels are left around a title text.
* _PadAdapt (boolean), Set true to adjust vertical padding so that the font gets centered vertically, requires _HeightAdapt_ to be false.
* _Focused (texture)_, Background texture for a focused titlebar.
* _UnFocused (texture)_, Background texture for an unfocused titlebar.
* _WidthMin (pixels)_, Minimum width of title in pixels, will also place the titlebar outside of the window borders. Use 0 to place titlebar inside borders.
* _WidthMax (percent)_, Maximum width of titles relative to window width. When this value ends up being smaller than the value in WidthMin, WidthMin is overridden.
* _WidthSymetric (boolean)_, Set true to constant width titles or false to use titles that only are as big as the clients title text string requires (note, asymmetric width is not fully implemented yet, always set this true for now to avoid problems).

#### Tab

Theming of the titlebar tabs.

* _Focused (texture)_, Background texture for a tab of a focused window.
* _Unfocused (texture)_, Background texture for a tab of an unfocused window.
* _FocusedSelected (texture)_, Background texture for the currently selected tab of a focused window.
* _UnFocusedSelected (texture)_, Background texture for the currently selected tab of an unfocused window.

#### FontColor

Theming of font colours.

* _Focused (colour colour)_, Text colour for a tab of a focused window. Second value is the shadow colour.
* _Unfocused (colour colour)_, Text colour for a tab of an unfocused window. Second value for shadow.
* _FocusedSelected (colour colour)_, Text colour for the currently selected tab of a focused window. Second value for shadow.
* _UnFocusedSelected (colour colour)_, Text colour for the currently selected tab of an unfocused window. Second value for shadow.

#### Font

Theming of the titlebar fonts.

* _Focused (fontstring)_, Font of the text of a tab of a focused window.
* _Unfocused (fontstring)_, Font of the text of a tab of an unfocused window.
* _FocusedSelected (fontstring)_, Font of the text of the currently selected tab of a focused window.
* _UnFocusedSelected (fontstring)_, Font of the text of the currently selected tab of an unfocused window.

#### Separator

Theming of the tab separator.

* _Focused (texture)_, Separator texture for a focused window.
* _Unfocused (texture)_, Separator texture for an unfocused window.

#### Buttons

Theming of titlebar buttons.

```
Right = "Name"
```

Places the button on the right end of the titlebar.

```
Left = "Name"
```

Places the button on the left end of the titlebar.

* _Focused (texture)_, Texture for button of a focused window.
* _Unfocused (texture)_, Texture for button of an unfocused window.
* _Pressed (texture)_, Texture for button that is pressed.
* _Hover (texture)_, Texture for button when pointer is placed on it.
* _SetShape (bool)_, If true, the shape of the button is derived from the alpha-channel. If false, the alpha-channel sets only the transparency. (defaults to true)
* _Button (buttonactions)), Configures what to do when a button is pressed.

#### Border

Theming of the borders.

Focused: borders for focused windows.

UnFocused: borders for unfocused windows.

* _TopLeft (texture)_, Texture for the top left corner.
* _Top (texture)_, Texture for the top border.
* _TopRight (texture)_, Texture for the top right corner.
* _Left (texture)_, Texture for the left border.
* _Right (texture)_, Texture for the right birder.
* _BottomLeft (texture)_, Texture for the bottom left corner.
* _Bottom (texture)_, Texture for the bottom border.
* _BottomRight (texture)_, Texture for the bottom right border.

### Harbour

Enables theming of the harbour.

* _Texture (texture)_, Texture to use as the harbour background.

### Menu

Themes the inside of a menu window.

* _Pad (pixels t,d,l,r)_, How many pixels of space around an entry are reserved.
* _PadAdapt (boolean)_, Set true to adjust vertical padding so that the font gets centered vertically.

#### State

One of Focused, Unfocused and Selected defining the appearance when
the menu/submenu is focused, not focused and the menu entry currently
selected.

* _Font (fontstring)_, Which font to use.
* _Background (texture)_, A texture that starts from the top of the menu and ends on the bottom.
* _Item (texture)_, A texture that starts from the top of a menu entry and ends on the bottom of the entry.
* _Text (colour)_, Colour of text to use.
* _Separator (texture)_, Texture to use as separator (required, client menu will break if neither is defined).
* _Arrow (texture)_, Texture to use for indicating submenus (you want this to be defined too).

### CmdDialog

Themes outlining the inside of a command dialog window.

* _Font (fontstring)_, Which font to use.
* _Texture (texture)_, Texture to use as the background.
* _Text (colour)_, Colour of text.
* _Pad (pixels t,d,l,r)_, Amount of pixels of space around font to reserve.
* _PadAdapt (boolean)_, Set true to adjust vertical padding so that the font gets centered vertically.

### Dialog

Controls the appearance of the _pekwm_dialog_ utility, used by the
pekwm_theme command and the crash dialog.

```
---------------------------------
| Title (TitleFont, TitleColor) |
|                               |
|         (Background)          |
|                               |
| Message (Font, Text)          |
|                               |
|       [Option] (Button)       |
---------------------------------
 ```

* _Background (texture)_, window background color.
* _TitleFont (fontstring)_, font used for the title.
* _TitleColor (colour)_, color of the title text.
* _Font (fontstring)_, font used for the message.
* _Text (colour)_, color of the message text.
* _Pad (pixels t,d,l,r)_, padding used for all elements.

#### Button

* _Font (fontstring)_, font used for button text.
* _Text (colour)_, color of button text.

* _Focused (texture)_, focused button texture.
* _Unfocused (texture)_, unfocused button texture (currently not used).
* _Hoover (texture)_, button hoover texture.
* _Pressed (texture)_, button pressed texture.

### Status

Themes the inside of the status window that shows up when moving
and resizing windows.

* _Font (fontstring)_, Which font to use.
* _Texture (texture)_, Texture to use as the background.
* _Text (colour)_, Colour of text.
* _Pad (pixels t,d,l,r)_, Amount of pixels of space around font to reserve.
* _PadAdapt (boolean)_, Set true to adjust vertical padding so that the font gets centered vertically.

### WorkspaceIndicator

Themes the workspace indicator which shows up when switching workspace.

* _Font (fontstring)_, Which font to use.
* _Background (texture)_, Background for the whole window.
* _Workspace (texture)_, Texture to use when rendering a workspace.
* _WorkspaceActive (texture)_, Texture to use when rendering the active workspace.
* _Text (colour)_ Colour of text.
* _EdgePadding (pixels t,d,l,r)_, Amount of pixels of space around window edges and workspaces.
* _WorkspacePadding (pixels t,d,l,r)_, Amount of pixels of space between workspaces.

***

[< Previous (Actions)](actions.md)
\- [Up](README.md)
\- [(FAQ) Next >](faq.md)
